# new classOrganism

## Artist's Statement

A lot of questions have been raised in the past decades about the similarities and distinctions between life forms and computational entities. New ClassOrganism explores this notion of life emerging within the boundaries of the screen and illustrates the different stages in the creation of one species purely based on computation. It strives then to identify what would make an organism be considered alive and how it would react to a programmed environment. But it also asks about our own societies, mainly our constant connectivity and its effect of the individual and the group. This project takes then the formal methodology of a scientific experiment and creates the impression for the observers that they are looking at different Petri dishes coming from a cybernetics laboratory.

The computational aspect of this project appears in the evolutionary process as well as in the goal of the new species. First, the programming space acts as the environment that exhibits a new kind of biology, a digital one, based on the principles of object-oriented paradigm. Inheritance, which implies the parent/child relationship between classes, is the key concepts of this computational space. Inheritance shapes the development stages of the species as the code evolves from a simple abstract class to a complex one that interacts deeply with its environment and the other individuals on the screen. Every iteration, a new class of organism adds or modifies functions and abilities from its parental heritage. And as the code evolves through inheritance, the visuals do too. At first, the screen stays empty since the first class is abstract and cannot be instantiated. But as the sequence moves forward, the organisms start to display, move, react to their environment and connect to each other. 

The last experiment stages the ultimate behavior for the species to survive: reproduction. It happens through an asexual but multiple-partner process of transferring information from connected individuals. This transfer occurs with respect for encapsulation that protects the variables inside and contributes therefore to the biology of the digital species and leads to the second important aspect of this piece, the goal of the species. This goal is defined through the creation of connections between individuals. It is arranged that way in order to reflect the connectivity that characterized computational media, but also human societies, and explores how this sharing can influence the growth of a new organism but the abandonment of certain individuals.
