Artist's Statement
 
A lot of questions have been raised in the past decades about the similarities and distinctions between life forms and computational entities. Digital Evolution explores this notion of life emerging within the boundaries of the screen and illustrates the different stages in the creation of one species purely based on computation. It strives then to identify what would make an organism be considered alive and how it would react to a programmed environment. 
 
The computational aspect of this project appears in the evolutionary process as well as in the goal of the new species. First, the programming space acts as the environment that exhibits a new kind of biology, a digital one, based on the principles of object-oriented paradigm. Inheritance, which implies the parent/child relationship between classes, is one of the key concepts of this computational space. Inheritance shapes the development stages of the species as the code evolves from a simple abstract class to a complex one that interacts deeply with its environment and the other individuals on the screen. Every iteration, a new class of organism adds or modifies functions and abilities of its parental heritage. This transfer occurs with respect for encapsulation that protects the variables inside and contributes therefore to the biology of the digital species. This shared information can arise only through connected organisms, which leads to the second important aspect of this piece, the goal of the species. This goal is defined through the creation of connections between individuals. It is arranged that way in order to reflect the connectivity that characterized computational media and explores how this sharing can influence the growth of a new organism.
